as part of my unquestioned  but equally unearned status as a guru on  the internet the two most frequently  asked questions i received are  what book should i read next and what  should i do with the rest of my life  under the heading of what should i do  with fresno life  there are young people going to  university for the first time there are  middle age and older people going back  to university after finding they're  dissatisfied with their careers at  midpoint or what have you there are  women divorcing their husbands their  husbands divorcing their wives their  people in a midlife crisis and  refreshingly once in a while i talk to  more of a retired person someone 65 or  something but who is nevertheless  asking the tough questions of what they  should do with the rest of their life  and  these two types of questions  you deal with the same  fundamental problem if you are in the  position  of the guru which is  i don't know you  like that  i am very very careful  in recommending a book to someone anyone  at any given time and sometimes the  people i recommend books to break down  weeping and spit and curse and are  very emotionally screwed up by the book  i put in their hands but if so it's a  book i'm recommending for you at this  time at this moment because i think it's  relevant to what  what it is you're dealing with what is  your you're going through right  the question of  what should be your major in university  what should you study in college  of my brothers was a very talented  and very  proficient  guitarist  and i have seen this guy  with a pause  switch between doing heavy metal guitar  classical guitar  and like spanish  guitar spanish acoustic i've seen him do  four or five different styles  completely effortlessly like even the  expression on his face didn't throw his  brow this is someone who you know  there's a question what is talent and  what is proficiency whether it was  through determination artwork repetition  practice or through some innate  uh combination of traits this guy had  mastered  the guitar  do you know what he didn't have  taste  he didn't have good taste  he wasn't sophisticated he was never  even really aware of the most mainstream  trends what was going on in new york  city or los angeles and he didn't go to  new york city or los angeles he remained  an unsophisticated pumpkin and no matter  how well  you may be performing music if you are  performing the wrong genre of music for  the decade you're alive in you know  how far can you possibly go now there  are a lot of other characteristics it  takes to be successful as a position  especially if you are the one leading  the band like if you're the guitarist  and you're the guy making the decisions  you're naming the band you're coming  with the lyrics the song concepts the  album concepts you're leading the tour  or the personality on stage you could  list off all the other traits you need  to succeed  he's an old man now this brother of mine  some of my brothers are like 15 years  older than me he's approximately 15  years old i really don't know exactly so  he's an old old man now and  if he throws a tantrum and sends me hate  mail  i'll deal with that bridge when i come  to it it's possible he'll be upset by me  talking about this but i think it is  fair to say he was an example of someone  who was lacking  in all of the traits you would need to  succeed  aside from  skill in playing the guitar like that he  was great at right now i don't know how  many people he got advice from like i  don't know if he went  you know like music school there was  someone who was a tutor who trained  people in planning and showed how well  he played the guitar and someone in that  position ever said to him wow  you've really got what it takes  but if that happened  if that happened that person was wrong  right they were making a judgment just  based on how he auditioned how he played  how he had that manual skill they  weren't looking at the whole man  and what i would call the whole cycle of  life what it takes to be a creative  artist  in that field so you know would you  lightly say to my brother  sure you can be a musician and you know  i mean to be fair to my brother he he  put all his eggs in one basket very  unvegan metaphor  so he uh he committed himself to that  totally for more than 30 years of his  life for most of his adult life and  teenage life you know that was all he  cared about that was all he did that was  the only way he tried to succeed and he  didn't develop himself in  in any other way so you know  you might think if you were in the  position of being the teacher or the  tutor  you might think that you do no harm in  encouraging someone right you might  think that you do no harm and encourage  oh great you should be a musician you  should go in that direction  the reality is you have no skin in the  game  you are not making  an investment in this kid you're giving  the advice to you are not risking  anything of yours right and we have a  culture that celebrates  encouragement right even if you are  encouraging someone to take a long walk  off a short bridge right like you're  saying to someone oh yeah it's no  problem just think positive just keep  walking over that bridge and in reality  they're walking over a cliff or they're  walking over a bridge that's going to  collapse  under their feet that's  just being real with you  i think on the most elite institutional  level  that is what we see playing out again  and again there was one example i saw in  print that stays with me because it was  it was in print so this was in something  like a student newspaper at cambridge  university cambridge england  exactly what the newspaper were pamphlet  was i don't know but it was an informal  student-produced uh affair  and the interview to one of the  professors who was a guy i knew just  from cocktail parties i i was married to  a professor and whatever i laid eyes on  this guy and he was an imbecile but he  had a phd and he was a professor and so  you know and so the the students  interview said well you know what what  do you think about this because all of  these professors  are encouraging us as students oh yeah  yeah buckle down get your master's  degree in anthropology get your phd in  anthropology every year the university  is  cranking out  more people with master's degrees and  phds anthropology who are paying a lot  of money to get this degree what what  employment could any of them possibly  have what can this lead to right  well it's not just the case that he has  no skin in the game like he takes no  risk in saying to you like no no look  let's also be clear  the talent of playing the guitar it's  something  you can be observed empirically to some  extent it's objectively real some of  these judgments i mean you know do you  have good taste in music  that's hard to establish objectively  right are you sophisticated you know in  your view of of contemporary music your  understanding of the market you  understand the audience you know as a  creative person do you come up with  interesting ideas for songs it's not the  same song everyone's heard before it's  something really new and different these  things may be hard to establish  objectively but sure you know i remember  i had a girlfriend very short-lived  relationship i had a girlfriend who  played  a violin at this very high competitive  level and she said that they had these  tests for how accurately you were  hitting the different notes in the scale  like how quickly and accurately you  could do certain things in the violin  that appear like they stood there with  something like a stopwatch i forget what  it was but they measured how well you  could hit all the marks you could you  could do these things on violin so there  were some measures we could say yeah you  have what it takes to play the guitar  you have what it takes to play the  violin and this other person they don't  have the dexterity in their hand or they  don't have the ear for it they're  they're tone deaf  okay you know what there might be  something  verifiable empirically that way  who can say to you that you have what it  takes to be an anthropologist  and if you guys don't know anthropology  the concept of what an anthropologist is  in england is totally different from  france totally different from germany  totally different from russia totally  different from california new york like  each of these little covens of  anthropologists they have their own we  know we know what the discipline of  anthropology is we know what the science  of anthropology is we know what makes a  good anthropologist it's crazy  you know  so these professors these people who  make money out of selling you you know  they make money out of your enrollment  out of your commitment out of convincing  you to commit and spend your own money  or spend your parents money right so on  the one hand they take no risk they  don't have any skin in the game if they  give you a worthless degree if they sign  you up for a life of unemployment or  a completely hollow and meaningless  education i'll talk more about that in a  minute talking about employment now  meaning of life is coming next  don't worry we cover both of this new  um  they will actually profit by deceiving  you they will actually profit by giving  you bad advice it's not just that they  will suffer from the lack of good advice  this might be mediocre advice right so  look you know  if people ask you for advice about their  sex life if someone says to you they  just can't understand why it's so hard  for them to get a boyfriend how why it's  hard for them to get a girlfriend  husband or wife  do you really know them like that do you  really know them well enough to say  this is the problem  this is the solution i was talking to a  friend i've had for about eight years  and i do know her though  [Music]  and it wasn't real entertaining she was  complaining about some stuff in her  personal i was like oh well here's your  problem  like you know  not to boast i think i hit the nail  right in the head but um and and she did  reckon that she was like wow that's  really good advice but it was good  advice for her  right this isn't  this isn't good advice i can give to  just anyone and everyone on the internet  you know all right you know  we seem to live in a culture  increasingly because of internet guru  dumb internet expertise the the  monetization of advice expertise  reflections on life on the internet we  live in a world where we pretend anyone  can give advice to anyone about their  their love life without any knowledge of  them so anyone can give you advice on  your mental health on your weight your  weight loss and exercise plan how to  solve your problems you can just pay  49.99 and talk to someone by skype right  now you know this kind of totally  anonymous i mean it's really like um  a one-way mirror  right  one person can see the other but the  other person can't see back right like  it's it's blind asymmetrically right oh  yeah i can sit here and dish out advice  joe guys all these guys my audience you  feel you can trust me  because you have been watching my life  in detail for five years the internet i  haven't been watching yours right this  is uh  what do you want to say a one-way mirror  i think people say two-way mirror for  that but it doesn't make that much sense  whatever the appropriate idiom is on one  side it's a window on the other side  it's a it's a mirror all right so i'm  going to read you guys this this uh this  message yeah sorry if you can can't fill  on the blank as much as we have that  problem about people's romantic lives  their love lives all right  as much we have a problem with book  reviews and recommended reading okay  well the stakes are very high when a  young person writes to you and says  they're  choosing what their major is going to be  in university so i have a message from a  member of the audience  who writes in hi isil in your videos you  mentioned how life is a lifelong  learning journey and i truly sympathize  with that i'm currently in my last year  of high school and i'll begin university  the year after  my question is what should i pursue to  learn  what program and university should i  take  what career should i choose  and finally how should i learn what  method should i use and by the way  university is free in the country where  he  lives all right so you can see i'm i'm  anonymous in this  so  you know first of all let's just  emphasize the things that are unknown to  me sitting unknown in my throne as i sit  here as a guru handing down this advice  right  i don't know you  i don't know your talents i don't know  your character  this kid is in his last year of  university he also  may not know his talents and his  character right he may not know himself  that well it's hard to i don't know  we're talking 18 years old something  maybe 17 we don't know right something  like that  you may not know if you're even even  something as obvious as guitar you maybe  you could become good at guitar and you  don't know yet i whatever it's the most  obvious thing how would you know what  you're good at at that age how would you  know how would you know what your  interests are and for most of us our  youth is spent playing video games and  uh watching movies and these other  things that don't help you develop any  kind of self knowledge of this kind any  kind of analytical objectively  verifiable awareness of what you're good  at so wait so the first thing is i don't  know you and especially i don't know you  like that like i don't know you well  enough to give you that kind of advice i  don't know  your city i don't know your  country i don't know your  culture  and  look  i can sit here and launch into a  critique of everything that's wrong with  the study of anthropology at cambridge  university england all right i can  launch into a critique of everything  that's wrong with the study of political  science  in  canada right now this is not a complete  list right  okay  but i'm aware  just in the contrast between england and  canada and france  a lot of those critiques would not be  equally true would not be valid in  france france is a very different  country in terms of what's wrong with  the university system right so someone  who so like let's say your specific  interest isn't getting a phd in  anthropology i don't know why and again  earning money is one thing meaning of  life is another whatever you want  okay  that's totally different  in france  and it's going to be very hard for you  to talk to someone who has the in-depth  knowledge of that field in france and  who is willing to be honest with you  about it right now it's a very brief  parallel  how easy is it to find someone who knows  what they're talking about buddhism  buddhist studies the  you know university level study and  teaching of buddhism someone who really  knows what's wrong with that field  and is willing to tell you the truth  about it these are two different things  because people have a religious fervor  about this now look  marxism communism  a lot of these ideologies are not just  buddhism  and frankly there were people who were  that [ __ ] up about anthropology like  even though it's just their career or  just their study there are people who  have like sociology too you'd be amazed  there are people from sociology is their  buddhism it is their it is their marxism  or whatever you know all those  disciplines they have their own their  own people in the field and a lot of  those people  whether this is wholesome  or  perverse  they really get some kind of special  thrill  out of vindicating their own sense of  importance  by impressing it upon  these teenagers who show up right so  typical career  academic whether it's the immediate  professor or someone who's actually  supposed to view career advice a special  offer like a counselor right this person  has been a loser their whole lives long  nobody ever read their phd thesis nobody  read the books they publish they go to  conferences nobody in their field  respects them within their own  department they go to department  meetings nobody in the department  respects them everyone treats them like  crap everything is denigrating for them  every day their landlord doesn't respect  them their parents don't respect them  they're a loser their whole lives long  and then once in a while  they get to speak to a young person like  you who is probably naive even if you  think you're cynical their name and that  young person says you know  you're my hero what i want to do when i  grow up is be just like you i want to  have a phd in anthropology too or you  know i want to have a phd in buddhism or  i want to be an architect  or  i want to be a surgeon and save the  lives of people with cancer but the  point is  sometimes it may be wholesome that they  have this relationship to younger people  who are just getting addressed in the  field and they're they're chuffed  they're proud they're pleased themselves  a lot of the time it is not souls  a lot of the time it is really perverse  and there's a very strange ego trip  on both sides of the equation  so look  uh i'm going to leave this person  anonymous melissa and i both have a  friend who's just gone through this in  the last few months  we have a friend who read  my critique of the university system  before he enrolled in university and who  saw my past videos  about what's wrong with university  systems so what melissa can you call  these out by memory but what we have a  video just called the university is  broken or something like this  if you just oh so we have a playlist  i'll have to add this to the playlist we  have a playlist called university  education comma critique of i'll put the  link in the description now yeah the  video i was really thinking of is titled  the university is broken colon  academically a drift book review  so that's when i did very much with  melissa she's on on camera with me for  that one okay so there's there's quite a  literature for you to see already on my  my youtube channel talking about  in depth and from different angles what  is wrong with the university system  melissa and i have a friend uh right now  and he was aware of this he had both  read what i'd written about universities  and he'd seen these youtube videos i i  think he'd seen every single one of them  the youtube videos on this on this topic  and he went to  a good university in a country with a  good university system so melissa's from  detroit you understand  i'm from toronto muslim detroit you know  uh i have experienced universities all  around the world right but he this is  not detroit  it's not oakland you know  he's going somewhere on a shallow  stereotypical level you'd think the  university would be good and he has had  to have the crushing realization like oh  this is happening to me also like all  the things isil has been saying are  perverse and terrible and broken of the  university system  in general or globally or in the western  world it's perverse and terrible and  broken for me here also too that he also  is going to endure this this terrible  thing is happening also he also is in a  position to have to fight against some  of the same forces i've described myself  fighting against my whole life including  back when i was a teenager and i  couldn't handle it so well as i do now  right  so look you know  um  i told melissa in anecdote a couple  weeks ago it just  came up we take a lot of long walks  together that's why i have such a good  tam  we were taking a walk a couple weeks ago  and the top of the conversation reminded  me of this professor i had who was a  very very elderly man he was past the  age of mandatory retirement so you know  universities they engage in some  jiggery-pokery this way he was somehow  teaching the course  after his his retirement so this  professor he looked like he was 70.  and in class one day he was telling an  anecdote about his own father who was  closer to 100.  so it's a funny story in many different  ways but this is an old man telling an  anecdote about an even older man  and both of these guys were born in  england  and then came over to canada i think the  son migrated first and later the father  followed in his in his retirement  and um  so the the father the guy who's about a  hundred  his eyes are failing and he's now um  too far gone to drive a car anymore he's  losing the ability to drive  safely  and the sun says  well you know dad and as the guy tells  the story a lot of people are like that  he he apparently speaks to his own  father in a somewhat childish voice he  lapses into a childish way  you know dad you could take the street  car it's perfectly normal here in  toronto you you don't have to drive  yourself around everyone else  and the father really crosses his arms  and  pouts his lip out and froze about he  doesn't like this idea he said well if  you take me the first few times like if  we go together i'll try it like he's  really afraid to take the streetcar and  the son doesn't know why so is it you  know this guy's 100 years old is he  afraid of crime is he afraid of being  mugged or something like you know does  he have some idea in his head about how  dangerous it is to to get on the  streetcar  and um  father and son get on the streetcar  and you know how it is a lot of people  when they get older they start going  deaf  and they speak more loudly to people  to compensate for their own deafness and  they don't say inappropriate things at a  very high volume i've had this happen in  the theater several times live theater  and you know there's an elderly person  doesn't realize  how loudly they're talking you know  someone next to them so in a in a very  loud voice that everyone else on the  street car can hear um when his father  hobbles up to the driver and first comes  onto the streetcar he says  loudly  i want a seat next to the stove  this guy was so old and it had been so  long since he'd been on a streetcar  he imagined the streetcar  had a coal  burning stove that both powered the  streetcar  right  and heated the passengers  so like it was that a memory from the  1880s like  what streetcar was he thinking of what  um  what was he imagining you know  all right i'll come to the point of the  story just a moment understandably i got  a question from the audience  will the new book no more manifesto must  be published as an e-text as a kindle  digital book no that's available on  paper only so it's over 600 pages  you have to have it as a book you can  hold in your hands and the advantage  will be you can make your own markings  in the in the margins you can add your  own uh  index and table of cons all right  why am i telling you this story  that professor  over seven years old he was the best  professor i ever had  and he reflected a whole set of cultural  values and the idea of what it means to  be a professor and what it means to be  an educator that was left over from  approximately world war one like this  was really a different world  um  so that i had that class in the year  2001 um for various reasons i remember  that so everybody in that story is  deceased by now there's no chance any of  them are alive  um  so you know again if you're counting  back about a hundred years from 2001  all right maybe not 1880 i don't know  maybe  it was a streetcar made in the 1880s  that was still in use in the 1920s i  don't know i don't know what the story  was there it wasn't  but you know um  the change  in the culture of education the change  in the culture of the educators  themselves from one generation to the  next the significance of that cannot be  exaggerated now am i simply saying to  you that they were the good old days and  they're gone no  you know in the old days universities  were only inhabited by men no women  universities were very tightly bound to  a notion of the liberal arts the notion  of preparing a gentleman to have a  career in commerce  um  the idea of a being a gentleman there  were a lot of um  civic virtues public virtues qualities  of character and so on that  have now become laughable  there ceased to be thought of it all in  the plan of education i met one guy he'd  now be a hundred he was younger when i  talked to him  he described to me his education going  into a very conservative liberal arts  college this wasn't that it was so many  years ago it's probably the 1950s but  the  university itself had attitudes left  over from the 1910s or something and you  know  um he was forced to learn to swim  i thought that was bizarre so your  university  forestry and they said yes they had a  list of abilities you're supposed to  have as like a young  as a young gentleman like you're  supposed to be able to fight in a sword  fight swim across a river like they had  like this list of things you have to be  able to ride a horse you know just  skills you need before you can call  yourself a graduate of this  institution and and get on with your  your career  so you know a lot of those things were  bound up in sexist and racist and  religious rhetoric and ideals  that you know marked them for  destruction  and i mean again if you if you just go  back to those old days and you look at  what was taught in a course on ethics  and many universities had a required  course on ethics that was a very common  thing in people's days all young  gentlemen should take the required  course introduction to ethics that those  days are gone right but as as positive  as that may sound look at what they were  actually teaching and you will be  horrified look at the contents of those  old courses on ethics and you know my  field really is politics  look at what was taught by in under the  heading of politics they'll give you  nightmares also so i'm not uh glorifying  the the irretrievable past year you're  saying before it was good and now it's  bad  however if you talk about a university  professor  born and raised in the 1920s  a university professor raised  in the 1940s  university professor from the 1960s  from the 1980s  like  the degree of cultural change  among these elites it's impossible to  exaggerate all right  so the critique of university education  on on this channel i've already provided  a link in the description you can watch  the videos did in the past  i believe the critique of the university  system is in no more manifestos  my new new book  there might be a little bit in future of  an illusion  there might be a little bit in there but  really it's in no more manifestos that  you get it in writing this very very  passionate warning about how broken and  corrupt and evil the university system  is  and  so again talking about this friend  melissa and i have  i mean he got to read that stuff being  discussed in theory  and then he's shocked to find himself  you know living through it in practice i  think depending on how old you are when  you read that that book no more  manifestos new book  i could imagine some people thinking oh  well you know he's exaggerating for  dramatic effect  and no this is a a deadly serious  critique of what's wrong with the  university system the way it  beggars and bankrupts families the way  it shatters individual lives  the way it really manipulates the hopes  and education of the pardon me the hopes  and expectations of young people who are  seeking an education  and of course the most painful part to  see of all i was saying this to a friend  of mine is a university professor right  now um  the saddest part of all is the people it  hurts the most  are the ones who are the least cynical  you know saying this friend of mine said  you know the saddest thing to behold is  the people who turn up 100 cynical and  they say okay i'm just here to get my  degree in nursing i'm just here to get  my degree as an x-ray technician just  here to get my degree as a dentist so i  can make money and get out people have  these kinds of mercenary motives where  they just regard the university as  complete [ __ ]  as they're there to get this degree to  make money and  they regard everything else as  horseshit as  a swindle  you know those people are damaged by the  experience of university of the least  and the people who show up and who  really care  either they really care because they  want to make the world a better place in  that sense or they care because they  actually want to learn the content of  what's being taught just someone who  really cares about poetry maybe it's  someone who cares about philosophy maybe  someone cares about politics but  somebody cares about history maybe it's  someone who passionately loves  the japanese language i mean it's not  necessarily something i sympathize with  but whatever it is the students who show  up with sincere good intentions who care  about the content  of the education  they are the most deceived  they are the most damaged of all and  university for them becomes a  life-altering uh tragedy  so look with all the caveats have been  stated i don't know you  i don't know your circumstances i don't  know your situation this is what i have  to say about what you study in  university  do not go to university  until you are such a machine  that all you need is the piece of paper  with the assignment on it and your  library card and you can go to the  university do the research write the  essay bang it out and know it's  publishable  you know whether you can get it  published it's another question that's  all through nepotism and being friends  with the editor of the journal  when you are at the level of expertise  that you can write that paper  on your own terms and stuff it down your  professor's throat say i don't give a  [ __ ] if you disagree with it i don't  give a [ __ ] if you're a marxist and i'm  an anti-marxist i know how to do the  research and prove my case and back it  up whatever the field like and by the  way there are marxists in all fields you  have a marxist in economics you know  marxist in religious studies english  literature anything you know chinese is  a language you might think you're taking  a non-political subject and you can have  crazy marxist professors if you go to a  conservative christian school you can  have crazy conservative christian  professors i mean there's people for  people pretend that it's only the  left-wing universities that are crazy no  mormon universities are crazy catholic  universities are crazy there are  conservative universities and they're  almost all run by religious maniacs they  deal different person  so i think the real question you have to  ask yourself again  read the book  you'd be surprised you will be surprised  how many pages of no more manifestos are  about the university system it is not  dealt with briefly it's dealt with great  passion and vigor  in very in great depth with a very  trench and uncompromising tone because i  i care about it tremendously so one of  the reasons i'm very glad i wrote the  book now and not 10 years from now when  maybe the memory of university would be  more more distant and wishful for me  okay  um  so the question becomes what are you  going to do  between now and when you enroll in  university because i assume in your last  year of high school you are not at that  level of self-sufficiency or you're an  auto diet act you can do everything  yourself without relying on the  professor to hold your hand and teach  you because guess what when you get to  university nobody's going to teach you  how to do the research nobody's going to  teach you how to uh write an essay if  you go into something that relies on  math  if your older brother didn't teach you  how to do the math no wait the  university will teach you how to do the  math like you know the fields that rely  on knowledge of math or chemistry if you  don't have an independent tutor or your  father or uncle or brother or something  if you don't have someone helping you  you are just going to sit down in a  theater with 300 students  you know doing multiple  choice exams and a lot of the students  are cheating now huge number of them are  cheating but things like that too if you  haven't already gotten to a level where  you can do the math yourself and now  you're showing up just to enjoy the  lecture and hear the professor's opinion  on that don't go  so then the question becomes what are  you going to do for a few years  before you go where you you will go to  university but not now  not yet  um  and i'm not going to get into the video  because that's not the answer to the  question you asked  i think in my own life you can imagine  how different it was  for me to go university directly out of  high school which i did at one time and  have my heart broken and be crushed and  be totally unprepared for the stupidity  maliciousness and viciousness  of my professors it's just  mind-blowing for me nobody told me that  nobody told me hey guess what you know  this  um  your relationship with your professors  is not even the relationship of a  prisoner to a jail guard it's more like  the relationship of a prisoner to a  cellmate who is trying to rape you rob  you stab you like it's it's this vicious  it's terrible it was absolutely terrible  and you know my experience in high  school was so bad and everyone told me  don't wait once you get to university  it's it's better i got to university and  it was it was worse totally unprepared  um for the viciousness of what i  encounter and i'm totally unfair of the  extent to which  everything i wanted to learn everything  i wanted to know  it was not in any way going to be  touched on in the courses even something  as obvious as plato oh you want to know  the philosophy of plato  you got to take your library card and go  to the library and work alone because  even a course that is titled philosophy  of plato is not going to teach to you  when you get into things more obscure  you know that was really cold and  chilling and shocking and you know my  parents were not going to help me my  parents were insane still are you know  the extent to which i was alone i had to  develop and become an auto dead act you  know okay what if you're a kid who wants  to learn cambodian i was what if you're  a kid who wants to learn something a lot  less commonly taught than  than plato you know okay what then so  that was that was a great horror at that  age  so here's the thing  decades later  right  i went back to university  when i had already  published peer-reviewed papers when it  already developed to a massive extent as  an intellectual doing research doing  writing and doing all the things you  need to do as universities did when i  was already advanced enough to teach  courses i mean i never taught a whole  course but i have given university level  lectures i've given you university level  lectures to university students i've  also given them to gathered professors  where everyone in the audience is a  professor i've done university level  teaching and you guys know in china i  was teaching uh english at the  university level that they they were  final year university students it was  what it was  um  so you know i have all these skills i  have all this preparation and i'm  totally mature and detached and  understand the rules of the game and  many of the professors are talking to me  as an equal not as a student like  they're commiserating with me as if i'm  one of them rather so being treated in a  very different way  and guess what  it was still tragic it was still  heartbreaking still everyone in the  system lied to me manipulated me ripped  me off right  and  the other thing that changed in my life  was that i had parents who up until very  late i just don't want to make this into  an autobiographical video but like  so you back in 1997 to the year 2000 you  know my parents were saying to me you  have to earn money immediately or we're  going to kick you out like you're going  to be poor on the street we're not going  to support you they would say this  really nasty stuff pushing me around  insulting me and intimidating me like  you got to get out and work at starbucks  it was really horrible and i've talked  about that since before my father died i  talked about it with him and um  i've talked about it with my mother  who's still alive now you know  that was not a trivial thing in my life  i mean it was really a major source of  stress  and that continued all the way up to  during the life of this youtube channel  when i suddenly had to quit my  university degree here and move to what  ended up being kunming china now  it's a longer story how i ended up a  good man it's a long story  but at that time so that's over five  years ago but not much more than five  years five years ago creeping up on six  years ago when that happened the reason  why it happened was that my father said  to me he had absolutely no money to pay  for my tuition anymore intuition in  canada is like five hundred dollars not  a lot okay say five thousand dollars but  it's not like the united states of  america it's not hundreds of thousand  dollars my father said he had no more  money for my tuition and he was kicking  me out and i had to go and get a job  immediately  um teaching english in japan you know  this is this is what my father decided  pulling the rug out from under me  sabotaging my university education again  these are two different times i went to  university and my parents ruined it for  me and you know  um  like  you know  whatever i took a philosophical attitude  towards it you can go back and watch the  youtube videos  you can see how i cope with it i mean  you can see in some ways i'm under  emotional strain and you can also see  the writing i did during the period many  of the essays i researched and wrote for  university that many different people  said were works of genius and professors  not all professors like me but some  professors were tremendously impressed  by the research it did in the essays  wrote that time is what it is  so you know you can go back  um  with that level of preparation and you  will still fail because the system is  broken it really is that bad  um  [Music]  but  the ultimate product of your education  is you  right so even if you presume failure on  their path like even if you if you just  acknowledge the university system is  totally broken and there's no way to  succeed and there's no way to win you  still have a choice of whether you're  going to lose on your terms or you're  going to lose  really being a victim of a system that  you are just too young  and defenseless  to fully understand so that is my advice  including this video you asked me what  you should major in and my answer is  read my book watch my other videos on  this playlist dealing with just this  subject  and then recognizing that we're now  going through a period of time in which  the university system is utterly corrupt  utterly broken utterly dishonest it's  really working against your interest you  will need a few years in between the  conclusion of high school and the  beginning of university  to develop yourself even if it is just  so that you have the skills that you  need  to succeed in a university context that  is fundamentally hostile to you that is  fundamentally inimical to you in which  your professors are not helping you your  professors are ripping you off  sabotaging you exploiting you insulting  you  emotionally breaking you down and in  terms of your career progress trying to  hold you down now that's what you got to  be prepared for  um i would compare this talking to a  young person entering the military  you know  be prepared for  being robbed  you know in your bunk bed by the other  guys in your unit i've read a lot of  stories about that literally being  beaten up  by other guys on your army base having a  commander or a commanding officer who's  a terrible person he may beat you up and  rob you himself of counsel be prepared  for the absolute worst be tough enough  and resilient enough and selfish enough  that you are not expecting any of those  people to help you you're not expecting  anything to be your friends you're  expecting them all to be your enemies  and you can still succeed at the  training you can still get the skills  down you can still be excellent in your  capacity within the military assuming  total hostility from all the other  people in the institution whose job  description says that they're to help  you  but actually they're you're they're  they're your most intimate enemies put  it that way they're the enemies on your  side the enemies sleeping in the same  barracks with you all right  now you know if you say that to someone  who's going to the army and then as it  happens you know  [Laughter]  they're they're they're with some  wonderful guys their commanding officer  is a great guy the others  great you know you went in prepared  right if there's one  person at your university who is kind  and patient and helpful to you you know  i'm i'm happy for you  but i've got to tell you i've been lied  to and ripped off  and and mistreated even by the people  whose description is counselor you know  i mean even by the people you know who  have a sign on their door saying we're  here to help  and they're not they're not there to  help  and i i began this with the kind of  parable of my brother the guitarist  and the sort of subtle way in which just  out of a culture of encouragement  someone who's a guitar tutor might say  to him hey you're really skilled you  should have occurred playing guitar and  that could lead to someone's ruin that  encouragement right  well the way in which authority figures  in a university  ruin your life  again sadly it is much more  perverse  than that  so i think that's enough for this for  this one video  um  [Music]  if you were to ask me the question you  know can  university education make you stronger  can university education make you  smarter all this conflict and hostility  i describe you know well couldn't it be  like for the best like steel sharpened  steel this  this kind of challenge  only if when you go in  you're already smart enough you're  already strong enough  and like i mean i'd say that about the  military too  if you are the toughest guy in your unit  right  it's fine for other guys to try to stare  you down right and you can you can laugh  it off and you you get into fist fights  other guys you may laugh it off together  the next day you know like maybe that's  your experience too right if you go in  and you are tough enough  to be a contender  that's one thing but that kind of  conflict that kind of hostility as easy  as it is for a hollywood movie to only  show you  the aspect of it making strong people  stronger  it also takes the weak and makes them  weaker  and um  [Music]  the particular type  of strength and resilience you need  before you go into that university  context  although i don't know you and i don't  know what you want to study i don't even  know what country you're in or what city  you're in or what your institutional  options are i can say with total  confidence there's no way your parents  have equipped you with that  and there's no way the experience of  high school education uh would have  given you those tools  uh to succeed  not because of the institution not  thanks to the nurturing helpful nature  of the institution but despite the  institution where  you know you are really going in with  the understanding  that sadly  um the professors  the administrators they really are a  kind of aristocracy  and you are in the position  of either being  a humble or a rebellious  peasant  um